README.md, before:

Project: Library Management System

Author: James Carlson

This project was built as an assignment for Coding Temple.


The library management system is made up of objects from three classes: books, users, and authors.


Each book object holds the following information:
 - Title
 - Author
 - ISBN
 - Genre
 - Publication Date
 - Whether or not the book is available to borrow
 - Who the book is borrowed by, if anyone


Each user object holds the following information:
 - Name
 - Library ID - This ID number is set incrementally.
 - Borrowed Books - A list of book titles currently on loan to this user


 Each author object holds the following information:
 - Name
 - Biography
 - Books in Library - A list of book titles by this author within the library system



Using the command-line interface, the user will be prompted with the following options:

1. Book Operations - 
    Handling books within the library system. These options include:
    1. Add a new book
    2. Add a new book by genre - calls on subclasses with genre already set to a featured genre
    3. Borrow a book
    4. Return a checked out book
    5. Search for a book
    6. Display all books

2. User Operations - 
    Handles users within the library system. Options include:
    1. Add a new user
    2. View user details
    3. Display all users

3. Author Operations - 
    Handles authors within the library system. Options include:
    1. Add a new author
    2. View author details
    3. Display all authors

4. Export Library to File - 
    Export all library data in the application to a text file.

5. Import Library from File - 
    Import data from a saved file, and use it to populate the library within the application.
    An example file ("library_data/library_export.txt") has been provided in this project folder and can be loaded into the application using this function.

Thank you for reviewing my code and for using the Library Management System!

Commit message:

my project has been SQL'ized!

README.md, after:

Project: Library Management System

Author: James Carlson

This project was built as an assignment for Coding Temple.


The library management system is based on the previous project, but now the database is handled with calls to SQL tables:


Books table:
 - book_id (Primary Key)
 - Title
 - author_id (Foreign Key for Author table)
 - ISBN
 - Genre
 - Publication Date
 - Whether or not the book is available to borrow
 - borrower_id (Foreign Key for Library_Users table) - Who the book is borrowed by, if anyone


Library_Users table:
 - user_id (Primary Key)
 - Name
 - Borrowed Books - Text comprised of book titles currently on loan to this user


 Authors table:
 - author_id (Primary Key)
 - Name
 - Biography
 - Books in Library - Text comprised of book titles by this author within the library system



Using the command-line interface, the user will be prompted with the following options:

1. Book Operations - 
    Handling books within the library system. These options include:
    1. Add a new book
    2. Borrow a book
    3. Return a checked out book
    4. Search for a book
    5. Display all books

2. User Operations - 
    Handles users within the library system. Options include:
    1. Add a new user
    2. View user details
    3. Display all users

3. Author Operations - 
    Handles authors within the library system. Options include:
    1. Add a new author
    2. View author details
    3. Display all authors



Thank you for reviewing my code and for using the Library Management System!
